Nearly a year on we learnt about visibility of properties and methods.
We can make them public which means we can access them from outside the class are private which means
we can't.
As an example let's add a new public property to the Item class called cold that has a value of one
two three four for instance as it's a public property we can access it's value when we have an object
of this class.
And when we run this cold we get the value of the property.
Print it out.
If I make this property privat like that.
When we in the cold again we get an error message saying we can't access the private property as expected.
Let's change this property back to public for now.
In addition to this item class we've also got the book class which is a child of the Item class.
Let's add a new method to this class that simply returns the value of the property.
We just added this property will be inherited from the parent Item class in our test script.
Let's comment out this line for now.
Then create a book object and Carl the new method like that.
When we run this we see the results of the method call printed out
in the Item class.
Let's make this property private again.
And now when we run the code we get an error saying the property is undefined.
This is because private properties and methods are only accessible inside this class.
They are not accessible in child classes.
But what if we want to do that make this property inaccessible from outside the class but also be able
to access it inside methods.
In child classes.
In addition to public and private there's a third type of visibility called protected.
If we change this property of the Item class to be protected like that
now when we run the code we don't get an error.
What's more if I remove the comments from this line where we're accessing the property directly when
we run this code we get an error saying we can't access a protected property so a protected property
isn't accessible from outside the class.
But it is accessible inside methods in subclasses.
So public visibility is used to make a property our method available from anywhere.
The current class any subclasses and instances of the object
private visibility is used to make a property a method available in its own class only and protected
visibility is used to make a property method available only from inside the class and any child classes.